Add Kubernetes 1.37 sneak peek blog (#56573)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026/kubernetes-v1-37-sneak-peek.md

The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption, with no functional changes expected. Both `v1` and `v1beta1` will remain usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API at their own pace without breaking existing workflows.

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/).

### Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode

Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the `kubelet` run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960: Container Stop Signals](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

> ### Volume Health Monitor

Reviewer: I feel this needs to be shorter, and I'm not sure if it's needed to include the second paragraph

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I agree. We can prolly trim this down as the implementation details would fit better in feature blog.

Author: I think the last 2 paragraphs are important since that is the crux of the KEP. I'll cut the second paragraph short

Kubernetes v1.37 release is planned for **Wednesday, August 26th, 2026**. Stay tuned for updates!

You can see the announcements of changes in the release notes for:

* [Kubernetes v1.36](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.36.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.35](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.35.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.33](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md)

## Get involved

The simplest way to get involved with Kubernetes is by joining one of the many [Special Interest Groups](https://kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/sigs/) (SIGs) that align with your interests. 
Have something you’d like to broadcast to the Kubernetes community? 
Share your voice at our monthly [New Contributor Orientations](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/orientation/), and through the channels below. 

> Thank you for your continued feedback and support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every month, we mentor new contributors through our [New Contributor Orientation](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/orientation/) program, organized by SIG Contributor Experience (ContribEx). We guide new contributors on how to take their first steps in the Kubernetes community. 
```

Clusters running `kube-proxy` in ipvs mode (or mode: ipvs in KubeProxyConfiguration) would now be logging a deprecation warning on startup. The deprecation timeline looks like this:
- By v1.40, `ipvs` mode for `kube-proxy` is expected to be disabled by default (still selectable via the feature gate)
- By v1.43, support for `ipvs` mode would be removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).
To confirm which mode you’re currently running, use:

```bash
kubectl -n kube-system get configmap kube-proxy -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.conf}' | grep 'mode:'
```

To understand the rationale behind this deprecation, see [KEP-5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5495).

> ### Removal of cgroup v1 support

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Future removal of cgroup v1 support {#cgroup-v1-support}
```
I'm going to edit this to include the word future. However, Release Comms team - if you disagree, edit it back and we'll figure something out.

Because I'll be the last person to have made a potentially controversial edit I wouldn't normally merge the PR (I'd hold it or something). But, for blog articles, we always need a separate PR anyway to actually publish it.

So, I intend to approve my own edit here, exceptionally. I do think that's OK as explained.

As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the `failCgroupV1` setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the `kubelet` will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied.

```yaml
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
failCgroupV1: false # temporary override
```

Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroup v2. While the override remains available in Kubernetes v1.37, users are encouraged to migrate to cgroup v2, as support for cgroup v1 is planned to be removed in a future release.

> To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573).

Reviewer 3: I think this is in the wrong section. There's a real chance that tens or hundreds of people read the article, and even with our tweaked wording the conclusion they (incorrectly) make is that we are telling them that there's a relevant change in the v1.37 release.

Author: Understood! We'll create a new section for it because I understand keeping it under `Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.37` can still be confusing, do you have any suggestions on what it could be named?

Author: (The similar SELinux KEP last cycle that needed to be highlighted as having a breaking change in a future release was listed as a featured KEP, for reference)

Reviewer 3: How about 
`## Ongoing major changes`
?

Author: I saw this just now, and raised a PR for making this change: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/56706 thank you for suggesting!

## Breaking changes in Kubernetes v1.37

> ### SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)

Reviewer 3: (nit; doesn't block merge; doesn't even block publication)
```suggestion
### SELinux volume relabeling ("SELinuxMount") graduates to GA {#SELinuxMount-GA}
```

> SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37. Volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.

Reviewer 3: (nit; doesn't block merge)
```suggestion
SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37.
Volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the mount option default) instead of being recursively relabeled,
but **only** when the volume's CSI driver opts in via a CSIDriver that sets `.spec.seLinuxMount: true`.
```

Post merge, I hope we can at least fix the case in `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true` though. That case is just incorrect, and [I think that] for official project comms, we shouldn't even let small slips through.

Because a single mount can only hold one SELinux context, pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node (which previously coexisted under recursive relabeling) may now fail to start. To retain the previous recursive behavior for a specific workload, set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` in the Pod spec.

Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37

### Metrics API goes GA {#metrics-api-ga}

The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in Beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

> This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption, with no functional changes expected. Both `v1` and `v1beta1` will remain usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API at their own pace without breaking existing workflows.

Reviewer 3: (aside) I'll have a word with the folks doing this, because I think we _will_ deprecate `v1beta1`.

People don't like to deprecate things, but often that reluctance goes away when you explain that deprecate means "suggest that people stop using".

Author: Sounds good! We can edit this if need be

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/).

### Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode

Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the `kubelet` run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 

With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) is expected to graduate to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside
a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges,
it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-2033: Kubelet in UserNS(aka Rootless Mode)](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

> ### Volume Health Monitor

Reviewer 3: (nit; doesn't block merge; doesn't even block publication)
Per the style guide
```suggestion
### Volume health monitor
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.37 Sneak Peek'
draft: true
slug: kubernetes-v1-37-sneak-peek
author: >
  Arsh Sharma,
  Christopher Tineo,
  Kirti Goyal,
  Sophia Ugochukwu,
  Swathi Rao,
  Troy Connor
---

As we get closer to the release date for Kubernetes v1.37, the project develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. This blog outlines some of the planned changes for the Kubernetes v1.37 release that the release team feels you should be aware of for the continued maintenance of your Kubernetes environment and keeping up to date with the latest changes. The information below reflects the current status of the v1.37 release and may change before the actual release date. 

## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.37

### Kubectl: kubectl run --filename/-f is deprecated

The --filename (or -f) flag for kubectl run is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like NAME and --image. 

> See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.

```

### Kubelet: removal of `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate

Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#140226](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/140226) for the original issue and discussion.

### Deprecating kube-proxy's support for ipvs mode

> ipvs was introduced in 2017 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
kube-proxy support for ipvs mode was introduced in 2017 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kube-proxy` support for ipvs mode was introduced in 2017 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).
```

Clusters running `kube-proxy` in ipvs mode (or mode: ipvs in KubeProxyConfiguration) would now be logging a deprecation warning on startup. The deprecation timeline looks like this:
- By v1.40, `ipvs` mode for `kube-proxy` is expected to be disabled by default (still selectable via the feature gate)
- By v1.43, support for `ipvs` mode would be removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).
To confirm which mode you’re currently running, use:

```bash
kubectl -n kube-system get configmap kube-proxy -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.conf}' | grep 'mode:'
```

To understand the rationale behind this deprecation, see [KEP-5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5495).

> ### Removal of cgroup v1 support

Reviewer 5: Thanks! cc @SergeyKanzhelev @kannon92

To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573).

## Breaking changes in Kubernetes v1.37

### SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)

SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37. Volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.

Because a single mount can only hold one SELinux context, pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node (which previously coexisted under recursive relabeling) may now fail to start. To retain the previous recursive behavior for a specific workload, set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` in the Pod spec.

Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37

### Metrics API goes GA {#metrics-api-ga}

> The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

Reviewer 6: nit: Beta should be capitalised in this sentence, given we're using Stable in its capitalised form, and we use Beta capitalised lower down the blog – not blocking for publication (can be a follow-up)

Reviewer 2: Nice catch, thanks!

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/).

### KEP #2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode (Beta)

Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the kubelet run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 

With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) graduates to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/2033). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/2033). 

```

### KEP #4960: Container Stop Signals (Beta) 

Currently, Kubernetes has no native way to modify a container's stop signal. Whatever the value was for the stop signal during the time of building the container image, it stays the same. The only way to modify it is to rebuild the container image and change the stop signal at the image definition level.

Changing a container’s stop signal is needed in various cases. One example is when you want to send a `SIGQUIT` stop signal instead of SIGTERM (which Kubernetes sends by default) when quitting an nginx container. Sending a SIGTERM can cause the nginx container to drop requests, whereas SIGQUIT leads to a more graceful exit. For cases like these, the user experience isn’t ideal, as there was no way native to do this in K8s. This KEP, which was first released in v1.33 as Alpha, fixes that by introducing `STOPSIGNAL` as a first-class citizen in the Pod’s container specification. 

With this feature, users can easily define custom stop signals in their container specs without rebuilding container images or resorting to hacky workarounds. 

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960:Container Stop Signals ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960:Container Stop Signals](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 
```

### KEP #5894: Node System Partition (Alpha)

> Currently, user workload pods and system pods share the same resource boundaries.  This makes it impossible to guarantee that the critical components have what they need and that the user workloads are free from system interference.  As Kubernetes' target for workloads has increased, a dedicated system partition solves these problems by giving system pods their own resource-limited cgroup hierarchy, eliminating interference between the management layer and user workloads.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Currently, user workload pods and system pods share the same resource boundaries. This makes it impossible to guarantee that the critical components have what they need and that the user workloads are free from system interference. As Kubernetes' target for workloads has increased, a dedicated system partition solves these problems by giving system pods their own resource-limited cgroup hierarchy, eliminating interference between the management layer and user workloads.
```

In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (for example, the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes.

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894:Node System Partition ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894:Node System Partition ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 

```

In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable(`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers(applications or users). 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-1432: Volume Health Monitor](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1432).

> ## Want to know more?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Want to know more?

```

New features and deprecations are also announced in the Kubernetes release notes. We will formally announce what's new in [Kubernetes v1.37](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.37.md) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

Kubernetes v1.37 release is planned for **Wednesday, August 26th, 2026**. Stay tuned for updates!

You can see the announcements of changes in the release notes for:

* [Kubernetes v1.36](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.36.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.35](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.35.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.33](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md)

## Get involved

The simplest way to get involved with Kubernetes is by joining one of the many [Special Interest Groups](https://kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/sigs/) (SIGs) that align with your interests. 
Have something you’d like to broadcast to the Kubernetes community? 

> Share your voice at our weekly [Contributor Communications meeting](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/communication), and through the channels below. 

Reviewer: On our contributor-comms meeting today, we agreed that it is a better idea to highlight New Contributor Orientation instead of the contributor-comms meeting

Author: Updated!

> Share your voice at our weekly [Contributor Communications meeting](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/communication), and through the channels below. 

Reviewer 7: Please do not send folks to the comms meeting; it's already overloaded. Instead, please mention New Contributor Orientation as a place to get started contributing.

Author: Got it. This was from the template, we'll be raising a few PRs to update the template for future releases.

Author: Updated!

Thank you for your continued feedback and support.

- Follow us on Bluesky [@kubernetes.io](https://bsky.app/profile/kubernetes.io) for the latest updates
- Join the community discussion on [Discuss](https://discuss.kubernetes.io/)
- Join the community on [Slack](http://slack.k8s.io/)
- Post questions (or answer questions) on [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/kubernetes)

> - Share your Kubernetes [story](https://docs.google.com/a/linuxfoundation.org/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuI7Ye3VQHQTwBASrgkjQDSS5TP0g3AXfFhwSM9YpHgxRKFA/viewform)

Reviewer: @kubernetes/release-team-leads I see `k/website` has already opened a PR to highlight end-user stories on the [CNCF website](https://www.cncf.io/case-studies/). Do you all agree with this suggestion?

Following up on this Slack [thread](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CNT9Y603D/p1784748204932599)

```suggestion
- Share your [Kubernetes End User Story](https://www.cncf.io/case-studies/)
```

## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.37

### Kubectl: `kubectl run --filename/-f` to be deprecated

The `--filename` (or `-f`) flag for `kubectl run` is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like `NAME` and `--image`.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.

### Kubelet: Static Pods can no longer reference Secrets or ConfigMaps

Static Pods were never meant to read API resources directly, since they aren't created through the API server — but a bug let them reference Secrets or ConfigMaps via fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`. That bug is now fixed: as of v1.37 these references are strictly prohibited, and the `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate that previously let you opt out of the restriction has been removed.

> Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`.

Reviewer 8: This seems to repeat the same information from the paragraph above. Could we remove or refactor this paragraph?

> Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#140226](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/140226) for the original issue and discussion.

### Deprecating kube-proxy's support for ipvs mode

> kube-proxy support for ipvs mode was introduced in v1.8 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kube-proxy` support for ipvs mode was introduced in v1.8 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).
```

Clusters running `kube-proxy` in ipvs mode (or mode: ipvs in KubeProxyConfiguration) would now be logging a deprecation warning on startup. The deprecation timeline looks like this:

> By v1.40, ipvs is expected to be disabled by default (still selectable via the feature gate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By v1.40, `ipvs` mode for `kube-proxy` is expected to be disabled by default (still selectable via the feature gate)
```

> By v1.43 removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).

Reviewer 8: Should these be formatted as a list for readability? Also, "By v1.43 removed entirely" looks like it is missing some words.

> By v1.43 removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By v1.43, support for `ipvs` mode would be removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).
```

> By v1.43 removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By v1.43, support for `ipvs` would be removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).
```

To confirm which mode you’re currently running, use:

```bash
kubectl -n kube-system get configmap kube-proxy -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.conf}' | grep 'mode:'
```

To understand the rationale behind this deprecation, see [KEP-5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5495).

### Removal of cgroup v1 support

> As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the `failCgroupV1` setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the `kubelet` will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the `failCgroupV1` setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the `kubelet` will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
failCgroupV1: false # temporary override
```

> Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroups v2. As the project matures, cgroup v1 support will be removed entirely, and this configuration override will no longer be available in future releases.

Reviewer 8: Is `cgroups v2` correct here? We use cgroup v1 and cgroup v2 elsewhere in this section, so wondering if the terminology should be consistent either way.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if is correct to use its plural form. I see it's referring to `cgroup v2` in its KEP so I'll follow that form for consistency: https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573/

> Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroups v2. As the project matures, cgroup v1 support will be removed entirely, and this configuration override will no longer be available in future releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroup v2. As the project matures, cgroup v1 support will be removed entirely, and this configuration override will no longer be available in future releases.
```

To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573).

## Breaking changes in Kubernetes v1.37

### SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)

> SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37: volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.

Reviewer 8: Could we split this into two sentences? It is fairly long and the colon makes it a little difficult to read.

> SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37: volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37. Volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.
```

Because a single mount can only hold one SELinux context, pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node (which previously coexisted under recursive relabeling) may now fail to start. To retain the previous recursive behavior for a specific workload, set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` in the Pod spec.

> Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)
```

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37

### Metrics API goes GA {#metrics-api-ga}

The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

> This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption with no functional changes expected, in line with the Kubernetes project’s goal to prevent an API from being stuck in permanent beta. Both v1 and v1beta1 will be usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API without any expected compatibility issues. Most users do not need to take any action, and the v1beta1 API will be deprecated and removed in a future release in line with the [Kubernetes API deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/). 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption with no functional changes expected, in line with the Kubernetes project’s goal to prevent an API from being stuck in permanent beta. Both v1 and v1beta1 will be usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API without any expected compatibility issues. Most users do not need to take any action, and the v1beta1 API will be deprecated and removed in a future release in line with the [Kubernetes API deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/). 
```

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/).

### Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode

Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the `kubelet` run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 

With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) is expected to graduate to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/2033). 

> ### KEP #4960: Container Stop Signals

Reviewer 8: Should we drop `KEP #4960:` from this heading for consistency with the other headings?

Currently, Kubernetes has no native way to modify a container's stop signal. Whatever the value was for the stop signal during the time of building the container image, it stays the same. The only way to modify it is to rebuild the container image and change the stop signal at the image definition level.

> Changing a container’s stop signal is needed in various cases. One example is when you want to send a `SIGQUIT` stop signal instead of SIGTERM (which Kubernetes sends by default) when quitting an nginx container. Sending a SIGTERM can cause the nginx container to drop requests, whereas SIGQUIT leads to a more graceful exit. For cases like these, the user experience isn’t ideal, as there was no way native to do this in K8s. This KEP, which was first released in v1.33 as Alpha, fixes that by introducing `STOPSIGNAL` as a first-class citizen in the Pod’s container specification. 

Reviewer 8: nit: "there was no way native to do this in K8s" wording might need tweak.

With this feature, users can easily define custom stop signals in their container specs without rebuilding container images or resorting to hacky workarounds. 

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960:Container Stop Signals](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

Reviewer 8: nit: Missing space after the colon.
```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960: Container Stop Signals](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 
```

### Node System Partition

Currently, user workload pods and system pods share the same resource boundaries. This makes it impossible to guarantee that the critical components have what they need and that the user workloads are free from system interference. As Kubernetes' target for workloads has increased, a dedicated system partition solves these problems by giving system pods their own resource-limited cgroup hierarchy, eliminating interference between the management layer and user workloads.

In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (for example, the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes.

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894:Node System Partition ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 

Reviewer 8: nit: Missing space after the colon, and there is an extra space before the closing bracket.
```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894: Node System Partition](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 
```

### Volume Health Monitor

Historically, Kubernetes has lacked an API for CSI drivers to report storage failures, which become evident only through failed mounts or hung I/O. Since remediation controllers had nothing machine-readable to act upon, the only way to figure out the root cause behind this failure was to cross-reference Kubernetes objects alongside external vendor dashboards. 

An initial v1.21 version of this feature introduced a `VolumeCondition` field in the CSI spec with the results surfacing as Kubernetes events. However, this approach had limitations: health was coupled to stat, events are ephemeral and unable to drive remediation controllers, and `NodeVolumeGetStats` covered only published volumes, ignoring key cases like corrupt filesystems and failed mounts. 

> In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable (`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers. 

Reviewer 8: Does the alpha need to be capitalized as Alpha for consistency with the other feature stages in this rest of the blog?

> In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable (`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to Alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable (`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers. 
```

* [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.33](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md)

## Get involved

The simplest way to get involved with Kubernetes is by joining one of the many [Special Interest Groups](https://kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/sigs/) (SIGs) that align with your interests. 
Have something you’d like to broadcast to the Kubernetes community? 
Share your voice at our monthly [New Contributor Orientations](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/orientation/), and through the channels below. 
Thank you for your continued feedback and support.

- Follow us on Bluesky [@kubernetes.io](https://bsky.app/profile/kubernetes.io) for the latest updates
- Join the community discussion on [Discuss](https://discuss.kubernetes.io/)
- Join the community on [Slack](http://slack.k8s.io/)
- Post questions (or answer questions) on [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/kubernetes)
- Share your [Kubernetes End User Story](https://www.cncf.io/case-studies/)

> - Read more about what’s happening with Kubernetes on the [blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- Read more about what’s happening with Kubernetes on the [blog](/blog/)
```

The `--filename` (or `-f`) flag for `kubectl run` is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like `NAME` and `--image`.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.

### Kubelet: Static Pods can no longer reference Secrets or ConfigMaps

Static Pods were never meant to read API resources directly, since they aren't created through the API server — but a bug let them reference Secrets or ConfigMaps via fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`. That bug is now fixed: as of v1.37 these references are strictly prohibited, and the `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate that previously let you opt out of the restriction has been removed.

Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#140226](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/140226) for the original issue and discussion.

### Deprecating kube-proxy's support for ipvs mode

> kube-proxy support for ipvs mode was introduced in 2017 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).

Reviewer 9: Instead of saying it was introduced in 2017, I would write the Kubernetes version that introduced it

> kube-proxy support for ipvs mode was introduced in 2017 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kube-proxy` support for ipvs mode was introduced as beta in v1.9 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).
```

> Clusters running kube-proxy in ipvs mode (or mode: ipvs in KubeProxyConfiguration) would now be logging a deprecation warning on startup. The deprecation timeline looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clusters running `kube-proxy` in ipvs mode (or mode: ipvs in KubeProxyConfiguration) would now be logging a deprecation warning on startup. The deprecation timeline looks like this:
```

By v1.40, ipvs is expected to be disabled by default (still selectable via the feature gate)

> By v1.43 removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).

Reviewer 9: I believe the kube-proxy log warning would depend on the Kubernetes version, I suggest we simplify:
```suggestion
By v1.40, ipvs is expected to be disabled by default (but still available via the feature gate). By v1.43, ipvs is expected to be removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).
```

To confirm which mode you’re currently running, use:

```bash
kubectl -n kube-system get configmap kube-proxy -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.conf}' | grep 'mode:'
```

To understand the rationale behind this deprecation, see [KEP-5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5495).

### Removal of cgroup v1 support

> As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the `failCgroupV1` setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the Kubelet will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the `failCgroupV1` setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the `kubelet` will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
failCgroupV1: false # temporary override
```

Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroups v2. As the project matures, cgroup v1 support will be removed entirely, and this configuration override will no longer be available in future releases.

To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573).

## Breaking changes in Kubernetes v1.37

> ### KEP #1710: SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)

Reviewer 9: Final users may not be familiar with what a KEP is, we should avoid mentioning them in titles and highlights. We usually mention them at the end when we link to more information
```suggestion
### SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)
```

SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37: volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.

> A mount can only carry one SELinux context, so [Pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node, which used to coexist under recursive relabeling, can now fail to start](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1710/#story-3-cluster-upgrade). Set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` on a Pod to keep the old behavior for just that workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because a single mount can only hold one SELinux context, pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node (which previously coexisted under recursive relabeling) may now fail to start. To retain the previous recursive behavior for a specific workload, set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` in the Pod spec.
```

> This behavior itself also isn't locked until a future release(expected to be v1.38), so disabling it cluster-wide continues to remain a viable option.

Reviewer 9: I'm not sure I understand what behavior will be locked 🤔

> This behavior itself also isn't locked until a future release(expected to be v1.38), so disabling it cluster-wide continues to remain a viable option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37

> ### KEP #5207: Metrics API (GA) {#metrics-api-ga}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Metrics API goes GA {#metrics-api-ga}
```

The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption with no functional changes expected, in line with the Kubernetes project’s goal to prevent an API from being stuck in permanent beta. Both v1 and v1beta1 will be usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API without any expected compatibility issues. Most users do not need to take any action, and the v1beta1 API will be deprecated and removed in a future release in line with the [Kubernetes API deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/). 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/).

> ### KEP #2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode (Beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode
```

> Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the kubelet run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 

Reviewer 9: According to the style guide, we should use code style for Kubernetes components: https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-code-style-for-kubernetes-command-tool-and-component-names
```suggestion
Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the `kubelet` run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 
```
If applied, make sure to do the same adjustment for all component mentions

> With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) graduates to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) is expected to graduate to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 
```

> With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) graduates to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Kubernetes v1.37, `kubelet` in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) graduates to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 
```

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/2033). 

> ### KEP #4960: Container Stop Signals (Beta) 

Reviewer 9: Unfortunately, Container Stop Signals will not be promoted to beta in v1.37, it was removed from the milestone https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4960#issuecomment-5054415971
```suggestion
### KEP #4960: Container Stop Signals
```

Reviewer 9: We should remove this section, KEP-4960 is no longer part of the v1.37 milestone

Currently, Kubernetes has no native way to modify a container's stop signal. Whatever the value was for the stop signal during the time of building the container image, it stays the same. The only way to modify it is to rebuild the container image and change the stop signal at the image definition level.

Changing a container’s stop signal is needed in various cases. One example is when you want to send a `SIGQUIT` stop signal instead of SIGTERM (which Kubernetes sends by default) when quitting an nginx container. Sending a SIGTERM can cause the nginx container to drop requests, whereas SIGQUIT leads to a more graceful exit. For cases like these, the user experience isn’t ideal, as there was no way native to do this in K8s. This KEP, which was first released in v1.33 as Alpha, fixes that by introducing `STOPSIGNAL` as a first-class citizen in the Pod’s container specification. 

With this feature, users can easily define custom stop signals in their container specs without rebuilding container images or resorting to hacky workarounds. 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960:Container Stop Signals](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

> ### KEP #5894: Node System Partition (Alpha)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Node System Partition
```

Currently, user workload pods and system pods share the same resource boundaries. This makes it impossible to guarantee that the critical components have what they need and that the user workloads are free from system interference. As Kubernetes' target for workloads has increased, a dedicated system partition solves these problems by giving system pods their own resource-limited cgroup hierarchy, eliminating interference between the management layer and user workloads.

> In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (for example, the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes.

Reviewer 9: I think we should split this long sentence into multiple sentences. Also, according to the KEP issue, this didn't make the code freeze deadline and was removed from the v1.37 milestone https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5894#issuecomment-5058169567 🥲

Reviewer 9: We should remove this section, KEP-5894 is no longer part of the v1.37 milestone

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894:Node System Partition ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 

> ### KEP #1432: Volume Health Monitor (Alpha)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Volume Health Monitor
```

Historically, Kubernetes has lacked an API for CSI drivers to report storage failures, which become evident only through failed mounts or hung I/O. Since remediation controllers had nothing machine-readable to act upon, the only way to figure out the root cause behind this failure was to cross-reference Kubernetes objects alongside external vendor dashboards. 

> An initial v1.21 version of this KEP introduced a`VolumeCondition` field in the CSI spec with the results surfacing as Kubernetes events. However, this approach had limitations: health was coupled to stat, events are ephemeral and unable to drive remediation controllers, and `NodeVolumeGetStats` covered only published volumes, ignoring key cases like corrupt filesystems and failed mounts. 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
An initial v1.21 version of this feature introduced a `VolumeCondition` field in the CSI spec with the results surfacing as Kubernetes events. However, this approach had limitations: health was coupled to stat, events are ephemeral and unable to drive remediation controllers, and `NodeVolumeGetStats` covered only published volumes, ignoring key cases like corrupt filesystems and failed mounts. 
```

> In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable(`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers(applications or users). 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable (`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers. 
```

> In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable(`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers(applications or users). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the `kubelet` calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable(`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers(applications or users). 
```

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Kubernetes v1.37: Sneak Peek'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Kubernetes v1.37 Sneak Peek'
```

> date: 2026-XX-XX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
the build fails due to the date @SwathiR03 

Given: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/56573#issuecomment-5051342449

slug: kubernetes-v1-37-sneak-peek
author: >

>   Arsh Sharma, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Arsh Sharma,
```

  Christopher Tineo,

>   Kirti Goyal, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Kirti Goyal,
```

>   Christopher Tineo, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Christopher Tineo,
```

  Sophia Ugochukwu,
  Swathi Rao,

>   Troy Connor 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Troy Connor
```

  Troy Connor 
---

As we get closer to the release date for Kubernetes v1.37, the project develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. This blog outlines some of the planned changes for the Kubernetes v1.37 release that the release team feels you should be aware of for the continued maintenance of your Kubernetes environment and keeping up to date with the latest changes. The information below reflects the current status of the v1.37 release and may change before the actual release date. 

> ## Removals and Deprecations in Kubernetes v1.37

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.37
```

> ### Kubectl: kubectl run --filename/-f is deprecated

Reviewer 3: Not quite right. "is deprecated", present tense, would be incorrect. Reword.

It's really important that people can't misread these things and end up misinformed.

> ### Kubectl: kubectl run --filename/-f is deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kubectl: `kubectl run --filename/-f` to be deprecated
```

> The --filename (or -f) flag for kubectl run is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like NAME and --image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--filename` (or `-f`) flag for `kubectl run` is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like `NAME` and `--image`.
```

> See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Kubelet: removal of `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate

Reviewer 3: This isn't really a feature removal or a deprecation. I wouldn't call it out as a removal. 

Instead, its a bug fix that you won't be able to opt out of.

Maybe SIG Node see it differently, but I feel confident the removal of the feature gate belongs elsewhere in the article.

> ### Kubelet: removal of `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kubelet: Static Pods can no longer reference Secrets or ConfigMaps

Static Pods were never meant to read API resources directly, since they aren't created through the API server — but a bug let them reference Secrets or ConfigMaps via fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`. That bug is now fixed: as of v1.37 these references are strictly prohibited, and the `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate that previously let you opt out of the restriction has been removed.
```

> Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like configMapRef or secretRef.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`.
```

Static Pods’ `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate has been removed, and this means they’re now strictly prohibited from referencing API resources such as Secrets or ConfigMaps through fields like configMapRef or secretRef.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#140226](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/140226) for the original issue and discussion.

> ### KEP #5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy

Reviewer 3: Tip: don't highlight the KEP (a typical user doesn't care / shouldn't care). But especially don't highlight a "KEP" for a removal; yes, we use the KEP process, but users won't see it as an enhancement.

Author: Is this suggestion specifically for the title? Can we still include the KEP number in the description?

> ### KEP #5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deprecating kube-proxy's support for ipvs mode
```

Author: Applied.

> ipvs was introduced in 2017 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).

Reviewer 3: nit: we mean "kube-proxy support for ipvs mode"

Clusters running kube-proxy in ipvs mode (or mode: ipvs in KubeProxyConfiguration) would now be logging a deprecation warning on startup. The deprecation timeline looks like this:
By v1.40, ipvs is expected to be disabled by default (still selectable via the feature gate)

> By v1.43 removed entirely [KEP-5495, Graduation Criteria](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/5495-deprecate-ipvs-mode-in-kube-proxy/README.md#graduation-criteria).
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

To confirm which mode you’re currently running, use:

```bash
kubectl -n kube-system get configmap kube-proxy -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.conf}' | grep 'mode:'
```

To understand the rationale behind this deprecation, see [KEP-5495: Deprecate ipvs mode in kube-proxy](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5495).

> ### KEP #5573: Removal of cgroups v1 support

Reviewer 3: Tip: don't highlight the KEP (a typical user doesn't care / shouldn't care). But especially don't highlight a "KEP" for a removal; yes, we use the KEP process, but users won't see it as an enhancement.

> ### KEP #5573: Removal of cgroups v1 support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removal of cgroup v1 support
```

Author: Applied.

> As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the failCgroupV1 setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the Kubelet will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the `failCgroupV1` setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the Kubelet will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied.
```

As modern Linux distributions and container runtimes use [cgroup v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/) as the default, support for the legacy cgroup v1 is officially being phased out. Since the v1.35 release, the failCgroupV1 setting has defaulted to true. Consequently, the Kubelet will fail to initialize on any nodes that still rely on cgroup v1 unless an explicit configuration override is applied. 

```yaml
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
failCgroupV1: false # temporary override
```

Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroups v2. As the project matures, cgroup v1 support will be removed entirely, and this configuration override will no longer be available in future releases.

> To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5537).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573).
```

> ## Breaking Changes in Kubernetes 1.37

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Breaking changes in Kubernetes v1.37
```

> ### KEP #1710: SELinux volume relabeling: SELinuxMount graduates to GA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### KEP #1710: SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)
```

### KEP #1710: SELinux volume relabeling: SELinuxMount graduates to GA

> In v1.37, SELinuxMount reaches GA and is enabled by default: volumes get mounted with -o context=<label> (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true.

Reviewer 3: Watch out for writing as if the contents of the release are confirmed. We should write as if none of the feature improvements are confirmed, so that all the upcoming changes are on an equal footing. 

(we can discuss planned deprecations with more confidence)

---

Write that way even when there is a comment at the top of the article saying that things might change. We should assume that half our readers skip right past it.

> In v1.37, SELinuxMount reaches GA and is enabled by default: volumes get mounted with -o context=<label> (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37: volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.
```

> A mount can only carry one SELinux context, so [Pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node, which used to coexist under recursive relabeling, can now fail to start](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1710/#story-3-cluster-upgrade). Set seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive on a Pod to keep the old behavior for just that workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mount can only carry one SELinux context, so [Pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node, which used to coexist under recursive relabeling, can now fail to start](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1710/#story-3-cluster-upgrade). Set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` on a Pod to keep the old behavior for just that workload.
```

> A mount can only carry one SELinux context, so [Pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node, which used to coexist under recursive relabeling, can now fail to start](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1710/#story-3-cluster-upgrade).. Set seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive on a Pod to keep the old behavior for just that workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mount can only carry one SELinux context, so [Pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node, which used to coexist under recursive relabeling, can now fail to start](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1710/#story-3-cluster-upgrade). Set seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive on a Pod to keep the old behavior for just that workload.
```

This behavior itself also isn't locked until v1.38, so disabling it cluster-wide remains an option for one more release.

Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

> ## Featured Enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37
```

> ### KEP #5207: Metrics API (GA) 

Reviewer 3: Slightly better
```suggestion
### KEP #5207: Metrics API (GA) {#metrics-api-ga}
```

> The `metrics.k8s.io` API is graduating to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly seven years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `metrics.k8s.io` API is graduating to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.
```

Reviewer 3: Try "expected to" or "we expect the". It's important to leave room for the actual release to differ from the sneak peek. If we don't do that, we are making an informal commitment that could be heard as formal, and possibly creating a Comms challenge if somehow a detail needs to change.

> The `metrics.k8s.io` API is graduating to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly seven years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.
```

This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption without introducing any functional changes, in line with the Kubernetes project’s goal to prevent an API from being stuck in permanent beta. Both v1 and v1beta1 will be usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API without any effect on compatibility. Most users do not need to take any action, and the v1beta1 API will be deprecated and removed in a future release according to the Kubernetes API deprecation policy. 

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition]( https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5207: metrics.k8s.io API definition](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5207/).
```

### KEP #2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode (Beta)

Traditionally, Kubernetes node components such as the kubelet run with root privileges on the host. While necessary for many deployments, this also means that a vulnerability in one of these components could potentially have a greater impact on the underlying system. 

With Kubernetes v1.37, kubelet in User Namespace (Rootless Mode) graduates to Beta. This enhancement allows Kubernetes node components to run inside a Linux user namespace as an unprivileged user on the host while still behaving as root within the namespace. By reducing the need for host-level root privileges, it adds an extra layer of isolation and helps limit the impact of potential vulnerabilities affecting node components. 

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-2033: Kubelet in UserNS a.k.a. Rootless Mode](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/2033). 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Changing a container’s stop signal is needed in various cases. One example is when you want to send a `SIGQUIT` stop signal instead of SIGTERM (which Kubernetes sends by default) when quitting an nginx container. Sending a SIGTERM can cause the nginx container to drop requests, whereas SIGQUIT leads to a more graceful exit. For cases like these, the user experience isn’t ideal, as there was no way native to do this in K8s. This KEP, which was first released in v1.33 as Alpha, fixes that by introducing `STOPSIGNAL` as a first-class citizen in the Pod’s container specification. 

With this feature, users can easily define custom stop signals in their container specs without rebuilding container images or resorting to hacky workarounds. 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960:Container Stop Signals ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

### KEP #5894: Node System Partition (Alpha)

> Currently, user workload pods and system pods share the same resource boundaries.  This makes it impossible to guarantee that the critical components have what they need and that the user workloads are free from system interference.  As Kubernetes' target for workloads has increased, a dedicated system partition solves these problems by giving system Pods their own resource-limited cgroup hierarchy, eliminating interference between the management layer and user workloads.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
Currently, user workload pods and system pods share the same resource boundaries.  This makes it impossible to guarantee that the critical components have what they need and that the user workloads are free from system interference.  As Kubernetes' target for workloads has increased, a dedicated system partition solves these problems by giving system pods their own resource-limited cgroup hierarchy, eliminating interference between the management layer and user workloads.
```

> In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system Pods (e.g., the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition Pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes. 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (e.g., the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes. 
```

> In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (e.g., the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.37, in Alpha, the goals of this would include introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (for example, the kube-system namespace), supporting memory limiting via the system partition’s cgroup root, supporting setting a dedicated CPU set for system partition pods, the kubelet will treat system and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic, the system partition is statically defined via kubelet configuration, and the system partition will share resources with kubelet, container runtime, and other host processes.
```

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894:Node System Partition ](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### KEP #1432: PV Health Monitor (Alpha) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### KEP #1432: Volume Health Monitor (Alpha)
```

In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using `ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`, while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple, extensible, and machine-parsable(`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers(applications or users). 

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-1432: PV Health Monitor](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1432). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-1432: Volume Health Monitor](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1432).
```

> To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-1432: PV Health Monitor](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1432). 
> 
> ## Want to know more?
> New features and deprecations are also announced in the Kubernetes release notes. We will formally announce what's new in [Kubernetes v1.37](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.37.md) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Want to know more?
New features and deprecations are also announced in the Kubernetes release notes. We will formally announce what's new in [Kubernetes v1.37](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.37.md) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

Kubernetes v1.37 release is planned for **Wednesday, August 26th, 2026**. Stay tuned for updates!

```

You can see the announcements of changes in the release notes for:

> * [Kubernetes v1.36](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.36.md)
> 
> * [Kubernetes v1.35](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.35.md)
> 
> * [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md)
> 
> * [Kubernetes v1.33](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Kubernetes v1.36](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.36.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.35](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.35.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.33](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.32](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.32.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.31.md)

* [Kubernetes v1.30](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.30.md)
```

> * [Kubernetes v1.33](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md)

Reviewer: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/03/30/kubernetes-v1-36-sneak-peek/#want-to-know-more includes all releases till 1.30

https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/11/26/kubernetes-v1-35-sneak-peek/#want-to-know-more includes 1.34-1.30

http://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/07/28/kubernetes-v1-34-sneak-peek/ includes none

Is there a specific rule for this? @SwathiR03

Author: Not really, I think releases dating back to 2025 should be sufficient, so 1.33 since Kubernetes 1.32 has reached end of life. @lmktfy , would appreciate your inputs here!

Reviewer 6: @SwathiR03 agree with you here about only listing releases we'd still support. I know we listed more in the v1.36 sneak peak blog, but i like the idea of listing all supported releases. perhaps something to add to the handbook for the future?

## Get involved

The simplest way to get involved with Kubernetes is by joining one of the many [Special Interest Groups](https://kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/sigs/) (SIGs) that align with your interests. 
Have something you’d like to broadcast to the Kubernetes community? 
Share your voice at our weekly [Contributor Communications meeting](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/communication), and through the channels below. 
Thank you for your continued feedback and support.

> - Follow us on Bluesky [@Kubernetesio](https://bsky.app/profile/kubernetes.io) for the latest updates

Reviewer 3: That's not our Bluesky handle.

> - Follow us on Bluesky [@Kubernetesio](https://bsky.app/profile/kubernetes.io) for the latest updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow us on Bluesky [@kubernetes.io](https://bsky.app/profile/kubernetes.io) for the latest updates
```

Because a single mount can only hold one SELinux context, pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node (which previously coexisted under recursive relabeling) may now fail to start. To retain the previous recursive behavior for a specific workload, set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` in the Pod spec.

Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.37

### Metrics API goes GA {#metrics-api-ga}

The `metrics.k8s.io` API is expected to graduate to Stable (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37 after spending nearly nine years in beta. The API provides a standard way to retrieve CPU and memory usage for pods and nodes, powering widely used Kubernetes features such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and commands like `kubectl top`.

> This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption with no functional changes expected, in line with the Kubernetes project’s goal to prevent an API from being stuck in permanent beta. Both v1 and v1beta1 will be usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API without any expected compatibility issues. Most users do not need to take any action, and the v1beta1 API will be deprecated and removed in a future release in line with the [Kubernetes API deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/). 

Reviewer 11: Since this has been in beta for a very long time, based on my initial discussion with Jordan and @dgrisonnet @rexagod, I think it won't be removed for a long time (a very, very long time) and might not follow the standard deprecation policy.

Reviewer 12: Yes, I would remove any mention of deprecation, it is unrealistic at this point in time

Reviewer 3: I am actively arguing that we should comment on deprecation; perhaps to say that the v1beta1 API version is not yet deprecated but is likely to be deprecated by a future K8s release.

> This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption with no functional changes expected, in line with the Kubernetes project’s goal to prevent an API from being stuck in permanent beta. Both v1 and v1beta1 will be usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API without any expected compatibility issues. Most users do not need to take any action, and the v1beta1 API will be deprecated and removed in a future release in line with the [Kubernetes API deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This graduation recognizes the API's stability and widespread adoption, with no functional changes expected. Both `v1` and `v1beta1` will remain usable during the transition, enabling developers to adopt the stable API at their own pace without breaking existing workflows.
```

In Kubernetes v1.37, this enhancement is expected to enter the Alpha stage, making it available for early feedback. The goals of this enhancement include
introducing a system partition with a dedicated cgroup hierarchy for system pods (for example, the kube-system namespace). It also supports memory limiting
through the system partition's cgroup root, assigning a dedicated CPU set to system partition pods. The kubelet will treat the system
and default partitions independently for resource allocation and overcommit logic. The system partition is statically defined through kubelet configuration and 
will also share resources with the kubelet, the container runtime, and other host processes.

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-5894: Node System Partition](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5894). 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Volume Health Monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-4960: Container Stop Signals](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/4960). 

### Volume Health Monitor
```

## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.37

### Kubectl: `kubectl run --filename/-f` to be deprecated

The `--filename` (or `-f`) flag for `kubectl run` is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like `NAME` and `--image`.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.

### Kubelet: Static Pods can no longer reference Secrets or ConfigMaps

Static Pods were never meant to read API resources directly, since they aren't created through the API server — but a bug let them reference Secrets or ConfigMaps via fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`. That bug is now fixed: as of v1.37 these references are strictly prohibited, and the `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate that previously let you opt out of the restriction has been removed.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#140226](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/140226) for the original issue and discussion.

> ### Deprecating kube-proxy's support for ipvs mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deprecating kube-proxy's support for `ipvs` mode
```

> `kube-proxy` support for ipvs mode was introduced in v1.8 to resolve iptables performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel ipvs API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, ipvs mode continues to use iptables underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kube-proxy` support for `ipvs` mode was introduced in v1.8 to resolve `iptables` performance bottlenecks. However, since the kernel `ipvs` API alone cannot fully implement Kubernetes Services, `ipvs` mode continues to use `iptables` underneath ([KEP-3866, "The ipvs mode of kube-proxy will not save us"](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/3866-nftables-proxy/README.md#the-ipvs-mode-of-kube-proxy-will-not-save-us)).
```

## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.37

### Kubectl: `kubectl run --filename/-f` to be deprecated

The `--filename` (or `-f`) flag for `kubectl run` is being deprecated as the generated pod is always built purely from CLI arguments like `NAME` and `--image`.

See [kubernetes/kubernetes#138671](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/138671) for the original issue and discussion.

### Kubelet: Static Pods can no longer reference Secrets or ConfigMaps

Static Pods were never meant to read API resources directly, since they aren't created through the API server — but a bug let them reference Secrets or ConfigMaps via fields like `configMapRef` or `secretRef`. That bug is now fixed: as of v1.37 these references are strictly prohibited, and the `PreventStaticPodAPIReferences` feature gate that previously let you opt out of the restriction has been removed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Using this override should be considered a short-term fix. Advanced resource management capabilities, such as In-Place Pod Resizing and Tiered Memory Protection, depend entirely on cgroup v2. As the project matures, cgroup v1 support will be removed entirely, and this configuration override will no longer be available in future releases.

To learn more about this deprecation, refer to [KEP-5573: Remove cgroup v1 support](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/5573).

## Breaking changes in Kubernetes v1.37

### SELinux Volume Relabeling (SELinuxMount graduates to GA)

SELinuxMount is expected to reach GA and be enabled by default in v1.37. Volumes would then be mounted with `-o context=<label>` (the MountOption default) instead of being recursively relabeled, but only when the volume's CSI driver opts in via `CSIDriver.Spec.SELinuxMount: true`.

Because a single mount can only hold one SELinux context, pods with different SELinux labels sharing a volume on the same node (which previously coexisted under recursive relabeling) may now fail to start. To retain the previous recursive behavior for a specific workload, set `seLinuxChangePolicy: Recursive` in the Pod spec.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Clusters without SELinux enabled see no effect at all. To learn more, check [SELinux Volume Label Changes goes GA (and likely implications in v1.37)](/blog/2026/04/22/breaking-changes-in-selinux-volume-labeling/)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In Kubernetes v1.37, this KEP resets graduation to Alpha and introduces four new CSI RPCs. The controller plugin reports the health of storage volumes using
`ControllerListVolumeHealth` (lists unhealthy volumes) and `ControllerGetVolumeHealth` (checks a specific volume). A controller-side health monitor polls these
CSI controllers and stores the results in `PersistentVolumeClaim.status.healthStatus`. 

On the node side, the kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeHealth` to obtain the health of individual volumes on that node and records it in `Pod.status.volumeHealth`,
while `NodeGetStorageHealth` reports the health of the drivers registered to a node in `CSINode.status.storageHealth`. The error vocabulary is kept simple,
extensible, and machine-parsable (`Inaccessible`, `Degraded`, etc.), with further driver-specific elaboration available via `reason` and `message`. Finally, the
controller-side and node-side reports are kept independent and are hence displayed separately, providing a more holistic view of storage health to consumers. 

To learn more about this enhancement, refer to [KEP-1432: Volume Health Monitor](https://kubernetes.dev/resources/keps/1432).

## Want to know more?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
